
CONKERS

Look let me try and explain this to you. If I can. I'm not actually sure, if I can really - but I'll 
try. I'll try to explain.

Since we've been living together, actually in all the time that we have been together, I had 
always hoped... No, scrub that, not that I had hoped... I had wanted, I wanted more than 
anything, for you to becomes the very, best person you could be. The best person, I thought, 
I knew you could be.

Not perfect. No one is perfect after all. We're all very much works in progress - but, you see, 
I saw in you something rare and special and hidden. Because you seemed to me to be well, 
like gold. That seemed to carry grains of the purest gold in your character. Golden dust of 
something special and good, and true and... Well, honourable. Qualities, that I value above 
anything else, and the possessor of which I could willingly grow to love with all my heart and 
soul...

And because of that I humbled myself because of what I anticipated you'd become in time. I 
played the part of this really dutiful, girlfriend and partner. I did things for you, said things 
about and for you, things that I could never ever really see myself doing and saying before, 
because I believed in you. I deliberately sacrificed the things I wanted because of what I truly 
hoped you would become - for yourself, for me and then for us.

You see, I've always had to deal with the fact that I'm quite bright. I'm sort of naturally 
intelligent, in a way. Not that I can split the atom or anything, but I get things intuitively, 
complex and ambiguous and intricate things. And I have this insatiable curiosity to read and 
read and read until I understand everything, until I know how everything works. That's why I 
always have loads of books on the go. Loads of books all at the same time on all sorts of 
different and weird subjects, half read, half finished with loads of notes scribbled all over 
them. 

Now, me just saying it like that, that I might be quite bright, makes me feel a bit 
embarrassed. It makes me sound like I'm just so, so full of myself or that I set myself above 
others. But it's true, I'm naturally clever and curious. But I've actually found it really hard to 
deal with being clever, when everyone around me seems, well, so, so, selfish and blinkered 
and stupid sometimes. And then at the same time for all that, all this cleverness, I've never 
been able to translate however bright I might actually be into anything like the success, I 
think I deserve in the real world. That makes me feel pretty lonely and without value.

Then along came you. You with you compassion, your thoughtfulness and your kindness - 
and your gold.  And I thought, and I hoped... Now, this is going to sound like I'm so, so 
massively full of myself again, so if it does sound weird, please don't get angry with me. But 
and this is the only way I can express it, you see, I wanted you to... well... to deserve me. 
That you could be truly worthy of me and everything, everything that I know I have to offer, 
that I would give of myself freely as a partner, a lover and a soul-mate. 

God that sounds so dumb. So, so, dumb. When I say it out load, like this. And spectacularly 
y dumb now, because, well, there is no gold in your character at all, is there ? None. None 
whatsoever. Nothing but deceit, and dishonour and lies. Values I truly, truly despise. And 
now... Now I am more, lonely... Much more, lonely that I ever was before...
