
DINKY

When I was small, my brother used to have these amazing model planes and tanks. They 
were kind of vintage metal toys, I think, of Harrier Jump jets and spitfires and jeeps and 
Thunderbirds and stuff like that. He just loved them, and he used to play with them over-and-
over again with his friends.

He'd get really angry if I ever I tried to play with them, or even touch them. Because he kept 
them in their original boxes and totally, totally treasured them.

When he was out though, I used to take a screwdriver from my Dad's toolbox under the 
stairs and go into his room. I'd take the models down from his shelves, take them into my 
room and carefully take them out of the boxes. Then I'd take them apart - piece by piece. 
Completely. What I'd do is, I'd look at all the mechanisms inside them all. How they all 
worked - how the pilot ejected, the wings went out and came back in again, how the Spitfire 
guns made a sort of machine gun sound. I was just completely fascinated with knowing how 
they worked, what the exact mechanism was inside each of them and how the different 
effects were created. Then, I'd meticulously put them all back together again, piece-by-piece 
and put them back in their boxes. Exactly as they were before. My brother never knew or 
ever suspect anything.

When I'd finally worked out how each and every one of them worked, I didn't need to take 
them apart anymore. Knowing exactly how they worked stopped this insistent, nagging 
curiosity inside me - this need 'to just know' - that just lingered and lingered if there was any 
remaining doubt over what was going on inside each of them. Like finally quenching a deep  
dry thirst. Like finally drinking the coolest most perfect drink after a run or a workout at the 
gym.

And... I've always had this thing. It's remained with me. I've always wanted - I want to know - 
how things work. Not just things, but everything. And I don't just mean mechanically, I mean 
the ideas that are within everything, that makes things work, drives them and makes them 
unfold the way they do. What belies them, what lies beyond and within them - their essence. 
Until I can find the essence of something, I can't stop trying to figure it out. Until I'm totally 
satisfied that I totally understood it. Until I have a satisfying... circumscribed explanation. 
And when I get that understanding, then... Well, then, I can then rest. For a bit. You see, I'm 
in love with that. I love it. I'm in love with ideas. I'm in love with, well... reason. You see 
when, I have that reason - pure, elegant, logical - beautiful - then the world feels stable and 
solid again. Something I can continue to have confidence and faith in. Not random and 
unknowable and, well... Unsafe. Does that make any sense, at all ? 
