
FUTILITY

Yesterday afternoon, about three o'clock, I felt so... So... Truly overwhelmingly tired, so truly 
heavy and so, so worn out with thinking that, I just let myself slide down off the sofa onto the 
floor. Then I just curled up in a ball on the floor under a table. Like a dead dog. And I fell into 
such a pit of misery and such despair that I put blanket over me and told myself I'd died. I 
told myself, I had 'gone'. I had left and I that was no longer living in my body. 

I laid there without moving for about an hour, I think. On the floor. Under a blanket. No-one in 
except me. And no-one due to turn up for hours. And in those exquisite moments, I felt 
totally tranquil and at peace. Without any unbearable sense of weight upon me. Cool, in the 
dark. On the cold floor. Silence and stillness. 

And in that time, I just didn't care about anyone or anything. No one. Even the people I 
should most love and care most about in the world now, past or present. I just didn't care. 
And it was a relief. Absolute relief. I could actually breathe. Take deep, deep breaths in and 
out. Relax and for what seemed an eternity be without a burden.

You see I'm just so used to having to care about everything. Having to be conscious who 
needs what and when. What I don't have, what we don't have, what I will need, what we will 
need. That everyone is happy. Worrying about what may happen today, tomorrow and next 
week. How things will play out, how I will cover everything, explain everything... Just keep... 
Keep everything going. Everything balanced. And it's truly... truly.. exhausting. And I find no 
time, no place for any joy in my life. Nor do I have any expectation of joy. Only this 
unbearable weight that I carry with me every day, and that gets heavier and heavier. From 
the moment I wake, until the list second of the last hour of the day, I close my eyes and give 
over to at the end of the day.

I think I'm like Sisyphus ? Have you ever heard of him ? In Greek mythology Zeus punished 
him for eternity. Every day he awoke anew and rolled a huge stone to the top of a steep hill. 
Each day, it took all his strength, all his might, all his force of will, to roll that goddam load to 
the top of that steep hill every day. And when he finally rested, when he finally laid down his 
load and slept the sleep of the dead. He woke up in the morning to find the stone was at the 
bottom of the steep hill again. And this he was condemned to do for eternity.

And that's how I feel, inside, right inside me. At the core of my being. This despair, this 
suffocating, breath-less purposelessness. Sisyphus, had his hill and stone, and me. Me. 
Well, I have my sofa and my blanket. Neither heroic or poetic, but, well, it keeps me warm 
when I'm on the floor.
