ROAR

I’m sure that I might look a fairly quiet and ordinary sort of person to you. To all of you. There’s nothing exceptional about me, is there ? I’m not likely to stand out in a crowd, am I ? Please, you don’t have to say anything. I’m not in any way feeling sorry for myself or anything. I’ve no illusions about myself. I’m quite ordinary. I know it, and that’s that.

But inside, inside this ordinary me, I actually feel... I feel... rage all the time. Rage and anger. And it’s not just like, I’m just a bit grouchy, or grumpy or cantankerous much of the time. You know, Janet Street Porter and all that. No, no, my anger is much, much bigger than that. Much more, well, epic, extraordinary and on a grander scale than that. More important.

No, the anger I feel, the anger I carry around with me all the time, well, it’s... Titanic. It feels...  Well, it feels positively Olympian - an epic, volcanic and a primitive rage. Like if I was like Godzilla or something, you know that big monster thing that comes out of the sea...Is it near, Japan ? I can never quite remember ? Well, if I were Godzilla, well, I could open my mouth, tilt back my head and from the very pit of my stomach issue forth a stream of such fire and for so long that it would set the sky alight. That’s how big my rage is. And it wouldn’t end there, you know. No, that wouldn’t be enough. ‘Cos I could draw in another huge breath, I could draw in breath after breath after breath and let forth such rage again and again and again from this pit of unquenchable pit of rage that sits here, right here, right at my very core and in my heart.

But you see, despite Godzilla’s random rage and thoughtless destruction, I actually, truly quite envy him... Or, her. Actually, it’s never crossed my mind whether Godzilla was male or female. You don’t do you ? I mean, not many of the films that I’ve seen have lingered too long on Godzilla’s dangly bits really ?  I mean, I can’t recall a film about Godzilla where she had small pert perfect little breasts or a rocky cock dangling between his legs. Can you ? No, I can’t either.

Anyway, what I envy about Godzilla, is that he - or she - is justifiably angry at something outside of himself. He’s livid at the thoughtless and selfish human beings who have disturbed the natural order of things. That have forced him to wake up from his perfect, salty sleep to give them a justifiably good kicking. I can go with that, that seems like a good healthy rage to me. Go Godzilla ! Yea !!

But, I don’t have Godzilla’s privilege... Or luck... You see. No. Because, my rage, my anger, my ire isn’t really directed at something in the outside world... No, that would be easy...er. My rage, my anger is directed at me. At myself. Relentlessly, unkindly, implacably directed at me. All the time and it never stops. Ever. There are moments when I am so angry at myself that I want to simply and totally to eradicate myself. Dig my nails deeply into my scalp, and rent my hair, gouge my skin, claw my face and score my body with deep scratches and lacerations and feel the sweet relief of just bleeding, and bleeding and bleeding. I want to incinerate myself, body and spirit to the driest, driest ashes and have them blow away in the wind, so that I never, ever have to be anymore. To leave absolutely nothing of myself here. To have never been here and to never be here or have a trace of me here ever, ever again. To vanish myself entirely from history.

But of course a person can’t really do that, can they ? Turn themselves to ashes and blow away in the wind. That’s a bit too nutty isn’t it ? When, I say it out loud, it sounds perfectly, perfectly mad. But then, it’s also quite mad to appear to be this ordinary but bear the burden of such intense feelings... inside. Perhaps, then... Perhaps... I’m really not so ordinary after all am I ? Perhaps, I am actually, quite, quite mad !
