
VIOLENCE

Mother, is that you ? It is isn't it... I can tell it's you... I can sense your disdain and 
anger. 

A PAUSE

If you think being here will make things better between us, or make something as 
painful as this a little easier to bear, well... I'm afraid, it wont really. It's too late for 
that.

A PAUSE

I'm not sure if you've ever noticed, Mother, but... Well... I'm broken. Inside. Truly, 
quite broken and beyond repair. I've been broken for as long as I can remember. 
Like someone took a rather thick, blunt knife and drew it through me gut - and the 
wound never really healed.
 
And then I always tried to hide my brokenness from everyone - even you - like a 
dancing fool or a clown. Persuade myself that I'm not so very broken, after all. To 
achieve things in my life to hold onto and even be proud of. But... Well, I've never 
really ever been able to do that, have I ? Not really. Not for very long. I think, once 
you're broken, you cannot ever truly un-break yourself. No matter how hard you try 
or will it to be otherwise.

A PAUSE

The truth is, Mother, it was you who broke me. You did this to me. Deliberately and 
with malice. Broke me into pieces. Because you could, and because I was... 
breakable. And I hate you for it, Mother, truly hate you for it. And I can never forgive 
you for what you have done to me.

You'll say, I'm sure, that you love me and that you have always loved me. But, your 
love, well, it came with unspoken terms and conditions, didn't it ? Really, all you have 
ever done, all you have ever really done, is heap violence upon me. Because your 
love isn't nurturing or forgiving or kind in any way, is it ? It's bitter and perverse and 
underhand. You love meant bending me to your will. While I willingly shaped myself 
into the person you wanted to love, you endlessly changed the rules so that I could 
only disappoint you. Up became down and down became up, ever changing and 
turning end-upon-end, until I couldn't rely on anything, have confidence in myself or 
hope to be loved just for myself. I tore myself to pieces in front of you, Mother. Tore 
flesh from my bones for you to love me. For what ? For what ? Because I truly, truly 
loved and adored you - so, so much - with all of my heart, and truly believed that you 
loved me - as selflessly as I loved you. 
But your love, Mother, has only been about yourself. About you. And for you. You 
enjoyed control over me. It gave you pleasure to see me so devastated, to have my 
faith torn down, reduce me to nothing, nothing, just so that you would have good 
company in your own brokenness. Do you see, Mother ? You were supposed to 
have mended yourself. For me. Not break and have me stand among the ranks of 
the broken alongside you. What sort of parent does that to a child ? Their child. 
Destroys their faith and hope and then leaves them so truly broken ? Answer, 
answer me that, Mother ! Answer me !!

You have no answer, do you ? Because it's true, isn't it ? Everything. Everything, I've 
said. Do you see now, why I can never, ever, forgive you for what you have done to 
me ?

So, please, please, just go. Nothing you can say or do will ever make this better for 
me. Please, just leave me alone. I really never want to see you again, Mother. Ever.

